~ January 22nd, 2026 ~

Administrative Tasks: I sent my completed safety form and WPL transcript to Andrea for onboarding. 
Hopefully once all of the documents are processed, I will have access to the lab!

Technical Tasks: From 1:30 PM to 5:30 PM today I worked on getting started with R. I installed the latest version for Windows and the R-extension package on VS Code. I have been able to run most commands, but I'm having some difficulty downloading certain packages and may consider switching to R Studio. Mostly I familiarized myself with the different data structures (vector, matrix, list), syntax for basic arithmetic, and operators. Compared to other languages, R seems much more flexible in terms of variable types.

Future Plans: I am hoping to work in the lab next week, where I plan to aid with simple tasks and continue learning R through a more problem-solving approach (today was mostly reading about the language).

~ January 29th, 2026 ~

Technical Tasks: From 2:00 PM to 5:30 PM today, I received instructions from Mao regarding the sanding process for the tree cores. Then I practiced sanding the cores using the different grits and labeling them with markers. I also learned about the different tools available in the lab (like the microscope!).

Future Plans: I have contacted Lizzie about some computing tasks, and hopefully will improve my sanding skills for next time!

~ February 9th, 2026 ~

Administrative Tasks: I met with Lizzie and Victor at 12:30 PM to discuss the new computational task of pulling data from XBASE and plotting it. I also downloaded R Studio and started reading the article.

~ February 11th, 2026 ~

Technical Tasks: I read through the entire article to understand where the data used to compute XBASE products is sourced from, and gain a better understanding of how FLUXCOM-X is meant to produce different sets of outputs with different inputs and training parameters. I compiled a brief summary of these findings and uploaded them to GitHub.

~ February 15th, 2026 ~

Technical Tasks: I worked from home during the reading break, from 4:00PM to 7:00PM. I started off by installing RStudio and the necessary packages to work with NetCDF files. Then I worked with one specific set of data (ET, 2001) and created a simple scatter plot against time. I plan to try plotting GPP and NEE in the future, and find a way to access the data without downloading to my computer.

~ February 27th, 2026 ~

Technical Tasks: I worked from home, from 4:00PM to 8:00PM. I downloaded data for GPP and NEE from 2001-2003 and started revising the code to loop over multiple locations, years, and specific range of days. The method is relatively similar to ET, but I double checked that the data was being extracted accurately using the preview on the XBASE site. Units and proper labels were added to the plot. I might work on saving the data for processing or updating the plot to make it more comprehensive.

~ March 5th, 2026 ~

Technical Tasks: I previously uploaded an initial version of the code to GitHub. Today, I worked on saving the GPP and NEE flux data into a data frame so the info can be retained for later processing of different metrics. I also started working on creating a 10-day moving average plot, and determining the first and last day when flux > 0. Planning to revise code to plot subsets from dataframe and use packages to generate more detailed plots.

~ March 24th, 2026 ~

Technical Tasks: From 8:00 PM to 12:00 AM, I built on the previous code saving values to the data frame and looped it over multiple years + sites. Also worked on adding a moving average to the plot and thinking of overlaying it on top of raw data. Lastly did some documentation on the code and verified functionality for different test cases.

~ March 25th, 2026 ~

Technical Tasks: From 7:00 AM to 11:00 AM, I worked on the plot details and ended up stacking them in one column for easier viewing across many years. Also found a library for making interactive plots so created separate script for that. Lastly finalized documentation and uploaded to GitHub.

~ April 7th, 2026 ~

From 9:00 AM to 10:00 AM and 3:30 PM to 6:30 PM, I worked on modifying the previous script to perform GSL estimation from NEE flux data. I tried both methods of finding when the moving average crosses the NEE = 0 threshold and finding the first/last five days in a row where NEE < 0. Now I am planning to work on producing a plot which shows the GSL for different years.

